# Senior-Thesis

Food insecurity is a pressing issue even in a first-world country such as the United States, affecting up to tens of millions of people even before the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Identifying which communities are most vulnerable to the consequences of food deserts is extremely important particularly when it comes to preemptive measures to provide them with the resources to obtain adequate nutrition in their daily lives. As a result, I employ various multivariate statistical techniques such as Principal Components Analysis to identify which variables are most indicative of the greatest variance in food insecurity rates across the United States. Moreover, I use Cluster Analysis to explore whether geographically proximate mirrors patterns of similarity in food inadequacy characteristics and proportions. To predict food insecurity rates by FIPS Code counties, a five-digit Federal Information Processing Standards code that uniquely identifies counties and county-equivalents in the United States, I use several different predictive models, including linear regression, ridge regression, and random forest regression. I train these machine learning models on the food insecurity data merged with demographic datasets regarding poverty, unemployment, and educational information to evaluate the validity of each model. Ultimately, the linear regression model provides the greatest accuracy and interpretability out of the models, paving the way for a promising method to predict future insecurity rates by FIPS Code county. This is particularly important to take preventive measures that would allocate future resources towards particular counties with higher proportions of households in food need.
